# QBF Instances for Adversarial Games in GDL

The QBF instances answer the question: can a player get 100 points within n steps regardless of the actions of all the other players. The GDL descriptions of the games are available [here](https://github.com/hharryyf/gdl2qbf-general/tree/main/SinglePlayer/GameDescriptions). 

The QBF instances are generated by the toolchain: ```GDL -> temproal extented GDL -> QASP -> QBF```. 

The framework is formally introduced in [our AAMAS 2024 paper](https://www.ifaamas.org/Proceedings/aamas2024/pdfs/p807.pdf). Instance generator is available in the [root directory](https://github.com/hharryyf/gdl2qbf-general/).


## Data Description (all in QDIMACS format)

The ```GB/``` directory contains instances generated with the baseline encoding (Def. 6 in [the paper](https://www.ifaamas.org/Proceedings/aamas2024/pdfs/p807.pdf)).

The ```GD/``` directory contains instances generated with the dependency-based encoding (Def. 8 in [the paper](https://www.ifaamas.org/Proceedings/aamas2024/pdfs/p807.pdf)). These instances perform quantifier shifting based on the atom dependency graph of the GDL description. Correctness can be justified by the splitting theorem.


Instances in the ```GD/``` directory are friendly to both CEGAR-based solvers and QCDCL solvers after bloqqer preprocessing.
However, instances in ```GB/``` are very unfriendly to CEGAR-based solvers but fine for QCDCL-based solvers. 

The ```bloqqer``` preprocessed instances of ```GB/``` (resp. ```GD/```) are in ```bloq_GB/``` (resp. ```bloq_GD/```). 


```instances_compressed.zip``` also contains all the instances in a zip file.


## Instance Family Description

**To the best of our knowledge, we also provided the first QBF encoding of the game Dots-and-Boxes, Three-Player-Connect-3, Three-Player-Connect-4, and Three-Player-Tic-Tac-Toe.**

### Breakthrough 

   * Configurations: board size 2x5, 2x6, 3x4, 4x4, and 3x5. 
   
   * Instances are named as break-through-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs
   
   * SAT iff player can win within depth many steps. 

### Connect-3    

   * Configurations: board size 4x4, 5x5, and 6x6.

   * Instances are named as connect-3-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs
      
   * SAT iff player can win within depth many steps.

### Connect-4    
   
   * Configurations: board size 4x4, 5x4, 5x5, 6x4, 6x6               

   * Instances are named as connect-4-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs
      
   * SAT iff player can win within depth many steps (connect-4-5x5, connect-4-6x4, and connect-4-6x6 at full depth are hard).

### Dots-and-Boxes    

   * Configurations: board size 2x2, 2x3, and 2x4.         

   * Instances are named as dots-and-boxes-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs
      
   * SAT iff player can win within depth many steps (dots-and-boxes-2x4 at full depth is hard).

### Generalized Tic-Tac-Toe-4x4-board

   * Each player places 1 piece on the board per turn

   * Configurations: winning configuration elly, fatty, knobby, skinny, and tippy

   * Instances are named as ```gttt-4x4-1-1-[config]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs```
      
   * SAT iff player can win within depth many steps.

### Generalized Tic-Tac-Toe-4x4-board

   * Each player places 2 pieces on the board per turn

   * Configurations: winning configuration elly, fatty, knobby, skinny, and tippy

   * Instances are named as ```gttt-4x4-2-2-[config]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs```

   * SAT iff player can win within depth many steps.


**The following are Three-player games. In these games, players xplayer-oplayer-zplayer alternatingly place pieces on the board with the original game rules, we decide: whether the a player can at least draw the game with n steps**


### Three-Player-Connect-3   

   * Configurations: board size 4x4, 5x5, and 6x6 

   * Instances are named as ```connect-3-3player-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs```

   * SAT iff player can win or draw within depth many steps.

### Three-Player-Connect-4   
         
   * Configurations: board size 4x4, 5x4, and 5x5  

   * Instances are named as  ```connect-4-3player-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs```

   * SAT iff player can win or draw within depth many steps (3p-connect-4-5x5 at full depth is hard).

### Three-Player-Tic-Tac-Toe 
   
   * Configurations: board size 3x3 and 4x4

   * Instances are named as ```tic-tac-toe-3player-[width]x[height]-[depth]-[player].qdimacs```

   * SAT iff player can win or draw within depth many steps.


